One of the things that someone
mentioned in the chat which is and
we should just address right
now before I forget which is so
we have these overrides what happens
if you're like I did a bad thing?
And it's too late to
hit the Undo button and
I would like to reset these overrides and
start fresh.
You can right click.
And you said reset all overrides and
it will go back in both cases to
the original set of components.
So there is a takes the back sees for
overriding pieces of a component.
One thing that just want to put in your
brain is this is an instance component of
this main component,
that's part of the terminology.
But weirdly, I can also make
a component out of a component, right?
Cuz who doesn't like inheritance chains?
[LAUGH] Yeah, we'll use that.
But first, let's go make an input field.
Again, this is pretty simple.
We might have done it before as well.
But we can go ahead and
we'll start with just some text.
And we'll say like, input value.
Let me zoom in on that a little bit.
And I will go grab that and
I'm gonna change that to, it feels right.
They will go out this
making an auto layout.
It's got some pretty aggressive margins.
So we'll change that a little bit.
And we'll say 10s of
1000s zoomed in a lot.
Let's go ahead and say now unlike
a button which might be in the middle,
we'll say this should
mostly be at the edge.
Say 8 all around.
We can adjust it if we
don't like it later.
And then we will go ahead and say,
this one actually has a fixed width.
So we can drag it into any kind of layout
grid and have it stretch across columns.
And we can control the button.
We're like,
just be the size of the button.
And you could make a like
full width button that like,
was a variation on the theme where this
one gives you the ability to like stretch
it out versus the other
ones that hug the text.
You can do all that but our input fields
generally speaking don't shrink to
the size of the text in them and
grow as you type in them.
I'm sure you could do that.
Please don't do that.
So go ahead and
give this one a stroke and fill.
Okay, doke, so
let's say fill this light color.
Love me a good border radius.
In this case, okay, that looks
mostly might make that 16 though.
Nope.
And the trick that we
haven't talked about yet
is that we've all seen UIs before, right?
One does not just make a button and
an input field and call it a day.
And one of the things I did kind of like
putting this all together I tried to do
like every conceivable variation
of a button and input field and
it was horrifying.
Cuz like labels, error messages,
required, focus disabled.
You can you can get like there are a lot
of variations here, so we're gonna need
other than just making like one offs and
hoping they all stay the same.
We're gonna need some
kinda like strategy for
managing a growing desire and
system, right?
But this is a fair start.
We'll also give it that same shadow
that I've given basically everything.
And so we've got the beginnings here,
right?
Like a display or a empty one might
have some placeholder text, right?
There can be a lot of
different variations.
We'll learn how to do that in a second but
first let's just start
with input field and
go ahead Command+Option+K, and
it got added as a component as well.
This one is just under components
because it's not in a frame.
If however I renamed it.
You can see that automatically jumped
into its own little category down here,
which is just my input fields.
This is going to be super useful later
to have some kind of hierarchy not just
a long running list of every
conceivable component.
Because we'll be able to swap between and
swapping between components in the same
folder is a lot easier than
having to kind of navigate up and
down a hierarchy as well.
Cool.
One of the questions is there a way
to clip the text of the width of
the input is fixed and smaller than
the text so does not get out the input.
So like if it gets too long,
a lot of times you're gonna have to adjust
like you have that clip content so
like, of the frame itself, right?
So here we can go I think this will answer
the question we'll hit clip content.
It's always gonna look some kind of gross
you can get really clever by like Having
a gradient and stuff like that.
So it like looks a little bit better,
But at least in this case,
it won't like expand outside.
Versus if I uncheck this box,
that's weight grocer.
So this is a little bit better.
Like if I was gonna get real fancy,
I might have a very subtle
like gradient shape over here.
So it looks like it kind of fades out or
something along those lines and
you could have that clipped as well.
It's probably not actually
that hard to do but yeah.
>> What do you do to keep it from
growing vertically cuz-
>> Yeah.
>> I did but I messed mine up somehow.
>> Right on.
So, in here you can have hug contents.
If I have that as fixed height, then I
can do all sorts of terrible things.
>> Okay,
now that was on like the outer frame?
>> Yeah, the easiest way to do
this is to click the title and
that'll be the outer frame at this point.
So I can change that to hug contents and
it will shrink down.
And if I change that to like, on the width
as well It will, like with a button,
grow and shrink in the width, which
is not what I want for an input field
definitely what I want for a button or
maybe what I want for a button.
The kind of one question
that might come up is like,
what about a min width to my knowledge,
that's not a thing.
So at that point,
you just go with a fixed and kind of,
if it's fixed you can adjust it like once
you've thrown an instance on the page
you kind of left on a given
component by component basis.
So you start out with a base set you can
like make it smaller you make it bigger
with affixed with you
are in charge of the size.
So main width is it kinda up to you,
right?
All right, cool just making sure
that we don't get any more note.
We are still hugging.
So let's change that to a fixed width.
And there we go, cool.
All right.